README.md, before:

# dependency-monitor
Scan one or more Github (private and public) repositories for any given dependency.
Built using GitHub APIs and .NET core.
Only support C# projects.

### Requirements
Requires GitHub personal access token. 
To generate one click on your profile image > settings > developers settings > personal access tokens > generate new token.
Token must have "repo" rights and nothing else.

### How to scan one repository:
To scan one single repository start dependency-monitor as follows:

```
dependency-monitor.dll 
      args[0] = GitHub Organization/User
      args[1] = Repository Name
      args[2] = Vulnerable Dependency
```
### Example
```
dependency-monitor.dll myOrg myRepo Microsoft.NET.Test.Sdk 
```
### Output:
```
-------------------------------------
Found 2 C# Project files in archive
-------------------------------------

    Dependency="Microsoft.NET.Test.Sdk" Version="16.9.1" 
    Dependency="xunit.runner.visualstudio" Version="2.4.3" 
    Dependency="Google.Protobuf" Version="3.15.6" 
    
[WARNING] Vulnerable dependency found 1 time(s)

    Dependency="Figgle" Version="0.4.0" 
    Dependency="FluentAssertions" Version="5.10.3" 
    Dependency="Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost" Version="3.1.13" 
    Dependency="WireMock.Net" Version="1.4.8" 
    
[OK] Vulnerable dependency not found

```

## How scan multiple projects
Add repos names to repositories.txt

Start dependency-monitor using `-batchscan` mode as follows:

```
dependency-monitor.dll 
      args[0] = -batchscan
      args[1] = Organization
      args[2] = Vulnerable Dependency
```
### Example
```
dependency-monitor.dll -batchscan myOrg Newtonsoft.Json
```
### Output
```angular2html
----------------------------------------------------
Found 1 C# project(s) in repository CodingChallenges
----------------------------------------------------
Dependencies in repository:
- Dependency name = "Newtonsoft.Json" Version="13.0.1"
[WARNING] Vulnerable dependency found 1 time(s)

--------------------------------------------------------
Found 1 C# project(s) in repository ValheimExpertBuilder
--------------------------------------------------------
Dependencies in repository:

[OK] No dependencies in project.
Multi-repository scan mode complete..
```

Commit message:

Documentation - Reduced delay between each scan from 5 to 2 seconds.

README.md, after:

# dependency-monitor
dependency-monitor is an application designed to scan and identify GitHub repositories using a specific dependency. Both public and private repositories are supported.

Using GitHub APIs, dependency-monitor authenticates and downloads the repository to your hard drive. It then looks for projects utilising the dependency by querying .csproj files. Dependency-monitor deletes all files when the analysis is complete.

### Requirements
To run the application requires a valid GitHub personal access token.

To generate one, click on your profile image > settings > developers settings > personal access tokens > generate new token.
Grant "repo" rights to the token. No other permission required.

### How to scan one repository:
If you want to scan just one single repository, start dependency-monitor as follows:

```
dependency-monitor.dll 
      args[0] = GitHub Organization/User
      args[1] = Repository Name
      args[2] = Vulnerable Dependency
```
### Example
```
dependency-monitor.dll myOrg myRepo Microsoft.NET.Test.Sdk 
```
### Output:
```
-------------------------------------
Found 2 C# Project files in archive
-------------------------------------

    Dependency="Microsoft.NET.Test.Sdk" Version="16.9.1" 
    Dependency="xunit.runner.visualstudio" Version="2.4.3" 
    Dependency="Google.Protobuf" Version="3.15.6" 
    
[WARNING] Vulnerable dependency found 1 time(s)

    Dependency="Figgle" Version="0.4.0" 
    Dependency="FluentAssertions" Version="5.10.3" 
    Dependency="Microsoft.AspNetCore.TestHost" Version="3.1.13" 
    Dependency="WireMock.Net" Version="1.4.8" 
    
[OK] Vulnerable dependency not found

```

## Automation (Batch scan)
Use batch scan if you need to scan two or more repos.
Add the repository name to `repositories.txt` file. One line, one repository.

Start dependency-monitor using `-batchscan` mode as follows:

```
dependency-monitor.dll 
      args[0] = -batchscan
      args[1] = Organization
      args[2] = Vulnerable Dependency
```
### Example
```
dependency-monitor.dll -batchscan myOrg Newtonsoft.Json
```
Note: there is a delay of two seconds between scans. if you want to remove this feature, remove the following line
```csharp
System.Threading.Thread.Sleep(new TimeSpan(0, 0, 2));
```
### Output
```angular2html
----------------------------------------------------
Found 1 C# project(s) in repository CodingChallenges
----------------------------------------------------
Dependencies in repository:
- Dependency name = "Newtonsoft.Json" Version="13.0.1"
[WARNING] Vulnerable dependency found 1 time(s)

--------------------------------------------------------
Found 1 C# project(s) in repository ValheimExpertBuilder
--------------------------------------------------------
Dependencies in repository:

[OK] No dependencies in project.
Multi-repository scan mode complete..
```
